Nvidia says that the gddr5 supply is
running out and in accordance with that
the company is refreshing some of its
active GG r5 products with GG dr six to
keep them going this isn't a common
occurrence but it does happen when
there's a brewing switchover between two
memory generations we also see this
happen for other SM DS or even thermal
pads when supply of one dries up and a
new supply has to be sourced for an
active SKU that's why most manufacturers
don't define the individual components
that are on there PCBs in this instance
GD r 6 has potential to influence
performance in a major potentially
positive direction but Nvidia's
reference GPU clocks for the gtx 1650 g6
have also been adjusted downward this
might negate some of the impacts and so
for both power consumption and for game
performance reasons we're going to be
looking at the gddr5 and g2 dr6 versions
of the 1650 today including a clock for
clock comparison on the GPU core before
that this video is brought to you by
gigabyte - or srt x20 atti extreme the
r-tx 2080 ti extreme is built with a
triple axial cooling solution and ready
for anyone interested in intermediate
GPU overclocking although it's also up
for gaming out of the box the gigabyte
2080 TI can reach the higher performance
range required to play games at frame
rates at and beyond 144 FPS couples
particularly well with games like Call
of Duty warzone Rainbow six siege and
other competitive FP assets gigabytes
extreme is built to be a looker for
system builders going for extra visual
flair
learn more at the link in the
description below this content is going
to be really simple we're not going to
include all the other cards in our
benchmarks for this one we obviously
have other data but you can look at
previous benchmarks for that this is so
focused solely on these 1650 cards and
just the non super SKUs so one of these
is g6 one is g5 there otherwise the same
we bought an EVGA SKU from new egg and
our previous SKU is a GD r5 EVGA SC
ultra from the original review cycle the
biggest question here again is to set
the clocks equal to each other that's
pretty easy and we'll show you a
frequency plot in the first set of
charts to illustrate what we did to do
that and separately the next thing I
look at other than just g5 versus g6
performing
on the same GPU obviously stock the
stock matters too because most people
aren't going to normalize the clocks
they're going to plug it in and forget
about it
pricing is about the same the original
card the gddr5 1650 which we said was
dead on arrival was priced at $170 at
the time we reviewed it and it's still
about that price it's 150 to 170 on
average for a g5 version the GDD r6
version is about 160 to 170 dollars it
has improved in performance the 1650
super was a pretty good card for the
price the 1650 was not well positioned
at launch like we said it was dead on
arrival and it remains poorly positioned
once the 1650 super came out and further
buried it so it's still kind of where it
was before that GD r6 version it's just
that it's a bit better now but we don't
necessarily recommend buying it actually
we don't really recommend buying it if
you can spend a little bit more for
something else anyway that's a
discussion you can watch in our GTX 1650
super review for this one we'll talk
about these two cards specifically
there's a couple of other things to
cover here but we'll throw that in the
conclusion so let's just get straight
into the benchmark since this one's so
simple we need to first establish the
frequency at which the cards run because
any like-for-like comparison will be
made more difficult by different core
clocks we're not intending to compare
the core clock change here we want to
compare the memory change so equalizing
for frequency is a must
we'll also have benchmarks with the
stock to stock card performance of
course just because that's probably how
most people will be using it we're using
times by gt1 and gt2 for this frequency
charge with a gap in between them the
gddr5 original model ran at about 1950
mega Hertz flat for the GPU core
frequency it started out 1980 and then
dropped to 1915 for the rest of GT want
for GT to the gddr5 model ran at about
19 50 megahertz when stock with a dip to
1930 towards the end running stock the
GDD r6 model has more trouble holding a
hard-line frequency but tends to hold
that about 1905 megahertz that 45 mega
Hertz deficit is important and needs to
be corrected for in any like-for-like
comparison with just the memory change
being tested with a 40 mega Hertz offset
and a +3 percent increase in power
budget we were able to
hit the frequencies and manually align
them the GDD are six cards extremely
slight overclock if you can even call it
that at these numbers held about 1950
megahertz
it's still plus or minus ten megahertz
peak to peak but overall it's much
closer and close enough that we can call
them about the same for this one-off
test 3dmark times pi gives us some
useful scoring that can be more reliable
in establishing deltas in the memory
performance gt1 and gt2 are split out in
a way that we can better understand what
each test is doing they isolate for
memory or for course so that's useful in
a synthetic fashion for this one the gtx
1650 with gddr5 scored 19.6 FPS GG to
average one stock Wiley stock g6 card
with its core frequency deficit included
scored 22 point 2 FPS and that's an
increase of 13.3% from the g5 to the g6
card that's without even equalizing the
frequency gt1 posted a difference of
21.5 to twenty four point nine or a
fifteen point six percent difference
although not shown here because it blow
out the scale the scoring was 33 61
points versus 38 51 points on the g6
card if you care or 3900 points with the
g6 card with the core clocks equalized
the gt-r six cards GPU frequency set
approximately the same about nineteen
fifty megahertz resulted in twenty two
point five one FPS for gt2 and twenty
five point two for FPS for GT want as a
note every fraction of a frame in time
spy is important to scoring it's not
like a game where it'd be totally
irrelevant it's harder to gain those
fractions of a frame in this benchmark
than in game benchmarks the GDD are six
oclock controlled test puts it at a
massive 17.2% ahead of the g5 card at
the same clocks but we should test some
other games to get a more real-world
representation for f1 at 1080p the stock
gddr5 test ran 62 FPS average 35 FPS 1%
low and 18.4 FPS 0.1% lows representing
the frame times the stock GTR six-card
improved this result by about 5% while
running at lower core clocks
demonstrating the benefit of the GDD r6
memory upgrade matching the core clocks
together
pushes that by an additional 3.5% it's a
67.5 FPS average with the low results
within test error the improvement at
roughly the same core clock but with GG
dr six is about 9% over the original
gddr5 car at 1440p that difference is
about eight point eight percent between
the matched core results and the stock
gddr5 result at fifty point six FPS
average to forty six point five FPS
average the GDD are six stock card ran
at forty eight point eight FPS average
maintaining a rough five percent
advantage as seen at 1080p
we run multiple resolutions to see if
there's any scaling across them as the
workload shifts so next we'll look at 4k
despite it being completely unreasonable
for these cards at 4k the improvement
continues to shrink
we're down from nine percent at 1080p
it's a 8.2 percent at 4k measured
between the gddr5 stock card and the GD
r 6 card with the match score frequency
the GD r 6 card is about four point nine
percent ahead so not much has really
changed here out over the tomb raider is
next to starting again at 1080p for this
test the gtx 1650 with gddr5 ran at 52
FPS average versus 56 FPS on the g 6
stock model that's an increase of 8.7
percent and that's in spite of the
decrease in core clocks on the g6 stock
model matching the frequency got it 257
FPS average so not much change and
within run to run variation of the stock
g6 test the matched core difference ends
up being about nine point eight percent
from g5 g six which is similar to the
nine percent improvement we saw in the
previous game benchmark moving on to
1440p to check for scaling the match
score difference between g5 and g6 ends
up at about eleven percent so it has
increased with the higher resolution
that makes sense and memory intensive
scenarios like this one if you were to
just buy the card and use it out of box
like most people would do the difference
is still 9.3 percent between the thirty
seven point seven FPS and thirty four
point five FPS average results and we
didn't run this one in 4k because it
became too stuttery even for a synthetic
analysis GTA 5 showed a bigger change we
retested this one to validate and count
with the same results at 1080p the gtx
1650 g5 card scored almost exactly the
same as it did
our initial review illustrating why we
like keeping GTA around on the bench
it's consistent and it's reliable even
across five years of testing that makes
it easier to fact-check against older
data for scaling the clock matched 1650
g6 held 71 FPS average a markedly dat
12.5% that's the biggest in-game
increase we've yet monitored the stock
to stock test also showed an improvement
at 70 point 6 FPS average versus the
original 63 although not shown on this
charge just for reference the 1650
supercard runs this game at about 83 FPS
average so the gap has narrowed between
the 1650s Q's at 1440p the 1650 g5 the
g6 gap increases to 14 point 4 percent
on the matched core result or about
eleven point four percent from stock to
stock or out of box performance the
increase in resolution has increased the
bandwidth requirement and that's
reflected positively with the jump to GD
dr6 we'd expect that continued with 4k
as the bandwidth requirement increases
even further in this instance it's at
15.7% improved from gddr5 to G GD r6
with matched core clocks or 12.9% if you
look stock to stock where the g6 card is
running at a slower core frequency we
know no one is going to play with these
settings or at these frame rates but the
point is to illustrate the scaling under
heavier memory load conditions and under
higher strain on the bus the next title
is hitman two with dx12 enabled for this
one we get the opposite not every game
cares as much about memory bandwidth and
hitman two is one of them in this title
we're more limited by the reduced SM
account than we are by the memory at
least when benchmarks with these
settings the GTX 1650s are maximally
5.4% apart back to the original numbers
we saw in f1 1440p shows the same thing
the maximum top-to-bottom difference is
5.5 percent functionally unchanging from
the 1080p deltas this is a game that
doesn't care much about the memory
bandwidth between these specific cars
doesn't mean it doesn't care in general
about memory bandwidth just between
these 1650 models where they're going to
be limited by something else in the core
first just to really illustrate that
point even 4k proves this we measured a
5.4 percent Delta top-to-bottom at 4k
resolution and
stock the stock results aren't that
different either this is a big
difference from what we saw in GTA 5
just for sanity we also ran hitman 2
with DirectX 11 in this version of the
benchmark the results posted an 8.5%
increase in performance from the gddr5
1650 to the g6 1650 the two GTR 6 cards
were about the same given the small
change in clocks but the memory
difference still benefited the new card
in a measurable way although maybe not a
meaningful one for purely synthetic
reasons we also included in ashes of the
singularity escalation run at 4k this is
a DirectX 12 benchmark as are some of
the previous tests and it's one that is
useful for restraining cards kind of
like thymus bias in this one our maximum
difference was at nine point one percent
from top to bottom at twenty eight point
two FPS average versus twenty five point
nine FPS average for the g5 card both at
the same clocks the stock to stock
comparison still plots a seven percent
performance increase from the memory
even with the clock deficit on the core
the last chart is a quick power test we
took power consumption at the PCIe slot
and at the PCIe 12 volt cables with a
custom interposer and with Hardware
monitoring the stock gtx 1650 with gddr5
to about 84 watts and fir mark compared
to about eighty six point four watts
with the g6 card this is within
tolerance of potential error or test
variants there's about 91 watts when
they were a clock matched so there is an
increase the time spy numbers were about
10 watts different between the two cards
more interestingly we noticed that the
PCIe slot only ran about 12 watts for
the 12 volt lines when tested for the
gddr5 card while the power was balanced
evenly with the PCIe slot and the cable
for the gt-r six card it was a
difference of one amp on the original to
a split of three point four to three
point eight amps on each of the PCIe
slot and cable for the newer card Nvidia
as well within the slot spec but it
still saw a power consumption increase
on the PCIe slot and they decrease on
the cables to accommodate the newer
memory it seems okay so that'll recover
for those the most interesting finding
here although not particularly useful in
any way is just that the power
consumption seems to be more evenly
split between PCIe
on the motherboard and PCIe in the
cables and we
12 volt lines on the PCIe slot and then
obviously the the power connector so
that doesn't have any implications of
anything it just means that it's more
evenly distributed why we're not really
sure it's something with how the power
delivery set up but it's not exceeding
the power consumption limitations and
either connector so and it's not really
that different in power consumption than
originally at most preceding 10 watts
difference in some workloads so it's all
that different in in any power
consumption metric it's better in
performance it's in some cases a
significant uplift we had a couple of
other games to that we tested where
we're seeing some of the higher numbers
like we saw towards the 14 percent
marker but that's about the most you can
expect out of it so a big jump yes and
definitely worth the upgrade if you had
to buy it new today obviously shouldn't
be upgrading near 1650 tgr5 model to a
g6 model that's why it's the money also
in general we don't think you should
really be buying a gtx 1650 it's not
it's not an objectively bad card in that
it does not have any flaws in basic
operation but it is a comparatively bad
card in that it's a bad deal when you
look at even on videos on offering 1650
Super's are much more worth it even with
the performance increase that these got
and the reason that video brought the
clocks down a bit was to try and
mitigate that performance increase so
that they didn't cannibalize their own
skew the closest AMD competitor we the
5500 XT or something like that but that
one had a bit of a troubled launch so
yeah it is improved but otherwise
remains about where we thought if you're
gonna buy one then definitely get the
gt-r sixth version don't buy the GG r5
version it is a meaningful improvement
you shouldn't just kind of brush it off
as a small change it's a big change here
and in some games it's only 5% but and
get them out of them we've seen 10% or
so or more there is one complaint I want
to point out because we're not going to
do a separate teardown on these but the
EVGA card at least the one that we
picked up it does not have any memory
cooling whatsoever so
evj says it technically operates in spec
we believe them it probably does
technically operate within spec but GTR
6 is pretty hot and even just it's just
like they have other coolers it's a down
costing thing but this is one of those
things where as reviewers who work with
a lot of cards we don't really feel
comfortable down costing in some areas
and one of those would be memory cooling
because long-term use you don't know
what kind of system the user is putting
it in a lot of people have hot cases
they run hot configurations because
they're not really built in a way that's
mind full of thermals and now you have
absolutely nothing to fall back on for
the memory except for the fan and here's
the problem with a GPU that's well
cooled or is low power consumption when
the GPUs low power consumption is well
cooled the fan on the card is following
that behavior it's not aware of the GDD
r6 thermals at least on the nvidia cards
there's no they don't program it that
way the fan is programmed to follow the
GPU temperature and so because of that
if you have a GP that's particularly
cool but you have a heavy memory
workload and in a warm case you're going
to end up with a situation where the
fans not spinning quite fast enough to
cool the memory adequately now in this
card truthfully it probably does perform
within spec but it's just not not the
kind of thing that we're really
comfortable with seeing a complete down
costing of and the very least connects
the memory to the rest of the cooler
that's used for the GPU it will quote
unquote increase the GPU temperature
because you're sharing that cold blade
that cooling solution with more
components that are higher power
consumption obviously total going into
the coal blade that is but it'll be
better for the overall system and a bit
more metal so I mean what are you
talking 5 dollars to the end user it
just it seems like the kind of thing
that shouldn't really be left out but
anyway that's a complaint about the card
g6 has improved over g5 that's all you
need to know and now you know the exact
degree to which it is improved thanks
for watching subscribe for more go to
store documents next to Scott net to
help side directly or patreon.com slash
gamers Nexus and we'll see you all next
time
[Music]